# CS-255-SNHU
CS 255 Portfolio

Here we are at the end of the class, and looking back at what I have learned, this has been an interesting journey. 

As is required, I need to answer the following questions in a cogent and thoughtful manner. 

Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?

What did you do particularly well?

If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?

How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?

How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?

  The DriverPass project was an opportunity, for us as budding developers, to help a company fill a niche need in helping people who need help getting their drivers liscense. The owner recognized the opportunity for growth in a partiular part of that industry, and utilized his resources to create a company that would address the problem wit a combination of in person instruction and online tst taking. The client was Liam the owner of the DriverPass company. Liam wanted a system that would be hosted online, to be more available to students to learn and take advantage of on-the-road instruction to get thier drivers license. The client was also adamant that he should be able to access the system anytime and anywhere, so he could generate reports, analyze data, or check scedules whenevr he needed to. 
  I feel like I broke the problem down to reasonable small chunks, which made the process of figuring out how everything should work together much easier. When viewed a one large and convoluted problem, the challenge seems to be insurmountable. However, after examination and analysis, the individual processes needed to acheive the goals became more evident. And once the processes and actions sorted out, decomposing the processess and actions down into individual steps was the next logical step, and was repeated until the steps were indivisible.
  If I were to rework the documents, I probably would spend a but more time with the business requirements document. I am sure I id not have the the best understanding of what that document was supposed to look like, or where some ofd the items in the lists really belonged. Some of the terms were either listed improperly under the wrong header or section, and some other terms were included when they shouldn't have been. 
  
  I tried to interpret the end users and corporate users needs in the design of the program. I wanted to make the student end as user friendly as possible so that they would engage with it easily, and without much guidance be able to do the things they wanted to do like: registering for classes, scheduling on the road training, making payments, or updating their account information. At the end of the day, the system is a tool, and so must be fit for use in the intended way by the intended people. A programmer copuld have created the greatest program ever, but if all the user facing text happens to be written in Russian with cyrillic characters, and if everyone who uses the system can't read Russian, then the system is a fancy and expensive door stop. I have found that in design work, the designer must get to know their intended audience or target user, so that the designer can meet  or even exceedd the expectations of that target user. By getting to know the end user or consumer, then the design can be made in such a way that it will solve their problems, in a way that makes sense to them, and with an output that is acessible to them. 
  
  My approach to designing software is to utilize a similar system to the method of developing set designs for live events, whether the events were plays, concerts, comedy shows, book signings, parties, or any other kind of event that needed design work. I would start by finding the main idea or concept of whatever event I was woring on. Sometimes the main theme or central concept as given to me, and I had to develop the remainder of the design from that, other times I had free reign to choose the main design concept. Once I was clear on the concept, I would then start work on identifying the most important ideas, objects, or requirements that the design would require. For example, if there was piano needed, because someoone was going to play it, I would note that and figure out how to integrate that with the rest of the design. But the process was always the same I would start by asking questions like: What do I need to acheive the goal of this project? How will I acheive the goal of this project? What resources do I have for this project? And my design process was iterative, identify the big picture, and progressively break down the design into smaller and smaller parts until the parts can no longer be broken down. I explain it like this, I am designing the play 'Romeo and Juliet' by Shakepeare. I would start with the book, read the play, and find that I will need a balcony and a hedge at some point. And depending on the design concept, I might design a manor house exterior with a balcony for the big scene, or if it was something more abstract I migh have Juliet swinging though the air on a trapeze. At the end of the day, my job asa designer is to identify the problem to be solved, determine the solution that best fits the desired outcome, and then figure out the steps and resources required to make it happen. I also think it is important for the system to do all the things the user wants it to do, it would be silly to build a calculator that doesnt add, multiply, divide, or subtract numbers, such a calculator could be solid gold, and still it would be useless in calculating how uch you own in income taxes on tax day. I certianly look forward to refining my design process, so that I can more easily communicate my ideas to the stakeholders, who in turn will hopefully continue to engage my services as a software designer. 

  Anyway, had a good time with this one... 
  -C-
